docs/architecture/OVERVIEW.md, before:

# Architecture Overview

**Last Updated:** November 15, 2025

This document explains the architectural principles and patterns used in this Flutter starter.

> **Note**: For complete file structure and reference, see [Project Structure](STRUCTURE.md)

## Contents

- [Dependency Flow](#dependency-flow)
- [Key Principles](#key-principles)
- [Adding New Features](#adding-new-features)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Testing Strategy](#testing-strategy)

## 🏗️ Architecture Layers

### 1. Core Layer (`lib/core/`)

The core layer contains infrastructure and shared utilities that are used across all features. It has no dependencies on other layers.

#### **constants/**
- **Purpose**: App-wide constants and configuration values
- **Files**:
  - `api_endpoints.dart`: API endpoint URLs
  - `app_constants.dart`: Application-wide constants (timeouts, pagination, storage keys)

#### **config/**
- **Purpose**: Environment configuration and app settings
- **Files**:
  - `app_config.dart`: Environment-based configuration (dev, staging, production)
  - `env_config.dart`: Environment variable loader

#### **errors/**
- **Purpose**: Custom exception and failure classes
- **Files**:
  - `exceptions.dart`: Exception classes (ServerException, NetworkException, etc.)
  - `failures.dart`: Failure classes for error handling

#### **network/**
- **Purpose**: HTTP client and network interceptors
- **Files**:
  - `api_client.dart`: Dio-based API client wrapper
  - `interceptors/`: Request/response interceptors (auth, logging)

#### **storage/**
- **Purpose**: Local storage abstractions
- **Files**:
  - `storage_service.dart`: Abstract storage interface and SharedPreferences implementation

#### **utils/**
- **Purpose**: Helper functions and utilities
- **Files**:
  - `result.dart`: Result type for handling success/failure states
  - `date_formatter.dart`: Date formatting utilities
  - `validators.dart`: Validation helper functions

### 2. Features Layer (`lib/features/`)

Each feature is self-contained and organized into three layers following Clean Architecture:

#### **data/** (Outer Layer)
- **Responsibility**: Data sources, models, and repository implementations
- **Components**:
  - `datasources/`: Remote and local data sources
  - `models/`: Data models (extend domain entities)
  - `repositories/`: Repository implementations

#### **domain/** (Inner Layer - Business Logic)
- **Responsibility**: Business logic, entities, and use cases
- **Components**:
  - `entities/`: Domain entities (pure Dart classes)
  - `repositories/`: Repository interfaces (abstract classes)
  - `usecases/`: Business logic use cases

#### **presentation/** (UI Layer)
- **Responsibility**: UI components, state management, and user interaction
- **Components**:
  - `providers/`: State management (Riverpod providers)
  - `screens/`: Full-screen UI components
  - `widgets/`: Feature-specific reusable widgets

### 3. Shared Layer (`lib/shared/`)

Reusable components that can be used across multiple features.

#### **widgets/**
- **Purpose**: Reusable UI components
- **Examples**: LoadingIndicator, AppErrorWidget

#### **theme/**
- **Purpose**: App-wide theming
- **Files**:
  - `app_colors.dart`: Color definitions
  - `app_text_styles.dart`: Text style definitions
  - `app_theme.dart`: Theme configuration (light/dark)

#### **extensions/**
- **Purpose**: Dart extension methods
- **Examples**: StringExtensions, DateTimeExtensions, ContextExtensions

## 🔄 Dependency Flow

The dependency rule in Clean Architecture states that dependencies should point inward:

```
Presentation → Domain ← Data
     ↓           ↑
   Shared    Core
```

- **Domain** has no dependencies (pure business logic)
- **Data** depends on **Domain** (implements domain interfaces)
- **Presentation** depends on **Domain** (uses use cases and entities)
- **Core** and **Shared** are independent utilities

## 📝 Key Principles

### 1. **Separation of Concerns**
- Each layer has a single, well-defined responsibility
- Business logic is isolated in the domain layer

### 2. **Dependency Inversion**
- Domain layer defines interfaces (repositories)
- Data layer implements these interfaces
- Presentation layer depends on abstractions, not implementations

### 3. **Feature-First Organization**
- Features are self-contained modules
- Easy to add, remove, or modify features independently
- Each feature can be developed and tested in isolation

### 4. **Testability**
- Domain layer is easily testable (no dependencies)
- Use cases are pure functions
- Data sources can be mocked for testing

## 🚀 Adding New Features

To add a new feature, follow this structure:

```
lib/features/your_feature/
├── data/
│   ├── datasources/
│   ├── models/
│   └── repositories/
├── domain/
│   ├── entities/
│   ├── repositories/
│   └── usecases/
└── presentation/
    ├── providers/
    ├── screens/
    └── widgets/
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Set environment variables when running the app:
```bash
flutter run --dart-define=ENVIRONMENT=production --dart-define=BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

### Storage Initialization
Initialize storage service in `main.dart`:
```dart
final storageService = StorageService();
await storageService.init();
```

## 📚 Best Practices

1. **Entities**: Pure Dart classes with no dependencies
2. **Use Cases**: Single responsibility, one use case per business action
3. **Models**: Extend entities and handle JSON serialization
4. **Repositories**: Implement domain interfaces, handle data transformation
5. **Providers**: Manage UI state, call use cases
6. **Error Handling**: Use Result type for explicit error handling

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

- **Domain**: Unit tests for entities, use cases, and repository interfaces
- **Data**: Unit tests for data sources and repository implementations (with mocks)
- **Presentation**: Widget tests for UI components, unit tests for providers

---

This architecture provides a solid foundation for building scalable Flutter applications with clear separation of concerns and maintainable code structure.

Commit message:

Add error handling documentation and implementation checklist. Introduced a new error handling strategy document detailing the flow from network exceptions to user-friendly messages. Updated architecture overview to include error handling section and key components. Created comprehensive implementation checklist for error handling, ensuring all aspects are documented and tested. All tests pass, confirming functionality and adherence to best practices.

docs/architecture/OVERVIEW.md, after:

# Architecture Overview

**Last Updated:** November 15, 2025

This document explains the architectural principles and patterns used in this Flutter starter.

> **Note**: For complete file structure and reference, see [Project Structure](STRUCTURE.md)

## Contents

- [Dependency Flow](#dependency-flow)
- [Key Principles](#key-principles)
- [Adding New Features](#adding-new-features)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Testing Strategy](#testing-strategy)

## 🏗️ Architecture Layers

### 1. Core Layer (`lib/core/`)

The core layer contains infrastructure and shared utilities that are used across all features. It has no dependencies on other layers.

#### **constants/**
- **Purpose**: App-wide constants and configuration values
- **Files**:
  - `api_endpoints.dart`: API endpoint URLs
  - `app_constants.dart`: Application-wide constants (timeouts, pagination, storage keys)

#### **config/**
- **Purpose**: Environment configuration and app settings
- **Files**:
  - `app_config.dart`: Environment-based configuration (dev, staging, production)
  - `env_config.dart`: Environment variable loader

#### **errors/**
- **Purpose**: Custom exception and failure classes
- **Files**:
  - `exceptions.dart`: Exception classes (ServerException, NetworkException, etc.)
  - `failures.dart`: Failure classes for error handling

#### **network/**
- **Purpose**: HTTP client and network interceptors
- **Files**:
  - `api_client.dart`: Dio-based API client wrapper
  - `interceptors/`: Request/response interceptors (auth, logging)

#### **storage/**
- **Purpose**: Local storage abstractions
- **Files**:
  - `storage_service.dart`: Abstract storage interface and SharedPreferences implementation

#### **utils/**
- **Purpose**: Helper functions and utilities
- **Files**:
  - `result.dart`: Result type for handling success/failure states
  - `date_formatter.dart`: Date formatting utilities
  - `validators.dart`: Validation helper functions

### 2. Features Layer (`lib/features/`)

Each feature is self-contained and organized into three layers following Clean Architecture:

#### **data/** (Outer Layer)
- **Responsibility**: Data sources, models, and repository implementations
- **Components**:
  - `datasources/`: Remote and local data sources
  - `models/`: Data models (extend domain entities)
  - `repositories/`: Repository implementations

#### **domain/** (Inner Layer - Business Logic)
- **Responsibility**: Business logic, entities, and use cases
- **Components**:
  - `entities/`: Domain entities (pure Dart classes)
  - `repositories/`: Repository interfaces (abstract classes)
  - `usecases/`: Business logic use cases

#### **presentation/** (UI Layer)
- **Responsibility**: UI components, state management, and user interaction
- **Components**:
  - `providers/`: State management (Riverpod providers)
  - `screens/`: Full-screen UI components
  - `widgets/`: Feature-specific reusable widgets

### 3. Shared Layer (`lib/shared/`)

Reusable components that can be used across multiple features.

#### **widgets/**
- **Purpose**: Reusable UI components
- **Examples**: LoadingIndicator, AppErrorWidget

#### **theme/**
- **Purpose**: App-wide theming
- **Files**:
  - `app_colors.dart`: Color definitions
  - `app_text_styles.dart`: Text style definitions
  - `app_theme.dart`: Theme configuration (light/dark)

#### **extensions/**
- **Purpose**: Dart extension methods
- **Examples**: StringExtensions, DateTimeExtensions, ContextExtensions

## 🔄 Dependency Flow

The dependency rule in Clean Architecture states that dependencies should point inward:

```
Presentation → Domain ← Data
     ↓           ↑
   Shared    Core
```

- **Domain** has no dependencies (pure business logic)
- **Data** depends on **Domain** (implements domain interfaces)
- **Presentation** depends on **Domain** (uses use cases and entities)
- **Core** and **Shared** are independent utilities

## 📝 Key Principles

### 1. **Separation of Concerns**
- Each layer has a single, well-defined responsibility
- Business logic is isolated in the domain layer

### 2. **Dependency Inversion**
- Domain layer defines interfaces (repositories)
- Data layer implements these interfaces
- Presentation layer depends on abstractions, not implementations

### 3. **Feature-First Organization**
- Features are self-contained modules
- Easy to add, remove, or modify features independently
- Each feature can be developed and tested in isolation

### 4. **Testability**
- Domain layer is easily testable (no dependencies)
- Use cases are pure functions
- Data sources can be mocked for testing

## 🚀 Adding New Features

To add a new feature, follow this structure:

```
lib/features/your_feature/
├── data/
│   ├── datasources/
│   ├── models/
│   └── repositories/
├── domain/
│   ├── entities/
│   ├── repositories/
│   └── usecases/
└── presentation/
    ├── providers/
    ├── screens/
    └── widgets/
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Set environment variables when running the app:
```bash
flutter run --dart-define=ENVIRONMENT=production --dart-define=BASE_URL=https://api.example.com
```

### Storage Initialization
Initialize storage service in `main.dart`:
```dart
final storageService = StorageService();
await storageService.init();
```

## 📚 Best Practices

1. **Entities**: Pure Dart classes with no dependencies
2. **Use Cases**: Single responsibility, one use case per business action
3. **Models**: Extend entities and handle JSON serialization
4. **Repositories**: Implement domain interfaces, handle data transformation
5. **Providers**: Manage UI state, call use cases
6. **Error Handling**: Use Result type for explicit error handling

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

- **Domain**: Unit tests for entities, use cases, and repository interfaces
- **Data**: Unit tests for data sources and repository implementations (with mocks)
- **Presentation**: Widget tests for UI components, unit tests for providers

## ⚠️ Error Handling

The project uses a comprehensive error handling strategy with typed failures and exception-to-failure mapping. For detailed information, see [Error Handling Strategy](error-handling.md).

### Quick Overview

1. **Network errors** (`DioException`) are automatically mapped to domain exceptions by `ErrorInterceptor`
2. **Domain exceptions** (`AppException`) are mapped to typed failures in repositories
3. **Typed failures** (`Failure`) are displayed to users via state management
4. **Error codes** are preserved for programmatic handling
5. **Error messages** are user-friendly and contextual

### Key Components

- `DioExceptionMapper` - Maps DioException to AppException
- `ExceptionToFailureMapper` - Maps AppException to Failure
- `ErrorInterceptor` - Automatically handles network errors
- `Result<T>` - Type-safe success/failure handling

---

This architecture provides a solid foundation for building scalable Flutter applications with clear separation of concerns and maintainable code structure.
